I have completed my engineering in "Electronic and Telecommunication" in 2008.A fair amount of programming is involved in ECE. Starting from first year, I learnt basic C and C++ language. These programming languages are taught to develop a base for logical thinking required for future programming skills.

In second year, I encountered subjects like microprocessors and microcontrollers. These subject involved hardware oriented course work as well as a bit of programming. Here I learnt assembly language programming and embedded C which are specially designed for microcontrollers.

I have started my career with above software engineering knowledge plus additionally I have learnt SQLplus. I have joined "Electronic Corporation of India Ltd(ECIL is a Government of India Enterprise under the Department of Atomic Energy , to create a strong indigenous base in electronics)". Here I worked for "Bhabha Atomic Research center, Mumbai on National Knowledge Network (NKN) client-side project." and got opportunities to learn new skills like "Linux stack, from kernel, networking, storage, to applications" which gives me to focus on system administration career path.

Later on I have joined "Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education (HBCSE) is a National Centre of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) , Mumbai". Here I  got opportunities - Setup new email server with open source mail server i.e postfix/sendmail, webserver, file server and maintain for almost 100K researchers and students. Here I was working with "Nagarjuna G serves as the chairperson of Free Software Foundation of India" https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nagarjuna_G. Under his guidance I have learnt opensource tools and its implementation. Also here I have learnt very new things like customization ubuntu desktop, PC cluster implementation for scientific calculation and basic of python language  

After that I have worked with couple of other organization Innoworth and Saint Gobain Ltd in Mumbai, here I worked closely with leadership team to improve infrastructure and application performance/availability with existing system administration knowledge.  
Also here I have started learning importance of cloud and Devops tool knowledge and its implementation. 

Currently I am working with "Vodafone Intelligent Solutions". Here I am responsible for design and deliver mission critical infrastructure to ensure the highest levels of availability, performance and security with DevOps tools and AWS Cloud infrastructure







I have intermediate python development experience. Majorly I have used python for lazy system administration task automation like log processing, backup/restore, file processing and conversion etc.

Major python development in my career is ETL (Extract, Transform and Load) script used for conversion from Oracle SQL to Mongo DB, where I have used various modules like pandas, pymongo, numpy, multiprocessing etc which helps to convert few millions of csv data into JSON data in few minutes. Here I have used interactive computing with https://jupyter.org/ instead of descriptive python code.





Dedicated and motivated Linux Administrator and DevOps engineer with excellent cross-functional collaboration skills and ability to develop practical, technical solutions to complex problems. 10 years of experience (6 years of experience in Linux administration and 4 years with DevOps and Cloud) managing infrastructure for applications with millions of users. I focus on scalability and performance and have helped save over $750K by reducing infrastructure costs while improving performance.

I have experienced with below skills/tools :

1.Operating system - Linux,RHEL, Centos, Debian and Ubuntu 
2. Webserver : Design and build Web Servers with HIGH PERFORMANCE (LAMP, NGINX/python, Nginx/Varnish, Nginx/php-fpm, Jboss, Apache tomcat and Varnish) - Improve and Fix performance issues, service optimization, security issues and deployments.
3. Database: MySQL and MongoDB 
4. Log event: Splunk, Logstash and Kibana 
5. CICD with Jenkin
6. Build with SVN/GIT 
7. Containerization with Docker and Orchestration with Swarm, Kubernates, Helm etc
8. Cloud with Amazon Web Service (AWS)
9. Monitoring with Icinga2, Prometheus and Instana
10. Scripting using shell, awk, sed and python 
11. Configuration management with Ansible 
